<?xml version="1.0" ?>
<!DOCTYPE book PUBLIC "-//KDE//DTD DocBook XML V4.2-Based Variant V1.1//EN" "dtd/kdex.dtd" [
  <!ENTITY kappname "&ksame;">
  <!ENTITY package "kdegames">
  <!ENTITY % addindex "IGNORE">
  <!ENTITY % English "INCLUDE">
]>

<book lang="&language;">

<bookinfo>
<title>The &ksame; Handbook</title>

<authorgroup>
<author>
<firstname>Nicholas</firstname>
<surname>Robbins</surname>
<affiliation>
<address>&Nicholas.Robbins.mail;</address>
</affiliation>
</author>
<!-- TRANS:ROLES_OF_TRANSLATORS -->
</authorgroup>

<copyright>
<year>2000</year>
<holder>Nicholas Robbins</holder>
</copyright>
<legalnotice>&FDLNotice;</legalnotice>

<date>2007-11-14</date>
<releaseinfo>0.9</releaseinfo>

<abstract><para>&ksame; is a nice little program meant to amuse you for
anywhere from 3 minutes to 6 days (straight).</para></abstract>

<keywordset>
<keyword>KDE</keyword>
<keyword>kdegames</keyword>
<keyword>ksame</keyword>
</keywordset>

</bookinfo>

<chapter id="introduction">
<title>Introduction</title>

<para>&ksame; is a simple game. It is played by one player, so there is only one
winner :-) You play for fun and against the high score. It has been inspired by
SameGame, which is only really famous on the Macintosh. </para>

<para>In 1997 &Stephan.Kulow; and Marcus Kreutzberger wrote <foreignphrase
lang="de">Probiere</foreignphrase> (a German pun). It was their first attempt to
write a X11 application. They decided that it would be a good idea to port it to
&kde;, and here we are.</para>

</chapter>


<chapter id="using-ksame">
<title>Using &ksame;</title>

<para>A very simple premise. There are a bunch of marbles. Get rid of them
all. ;-)</para> 

<para>You can erase same marbles when they are connected vertically or
horizontally when you click them.  If there are pieces over the erased ones,
they will drop down. If all of the pieces on the vertical line are erased, all
pieces on the right side will slide to the left.</para>

<para>The score is calculated as follows:</para>
<para>Subtract 2 from the number of marbles erased, and square the result.</para>
<para>As an example, if you erase 7 balls, then you get 25 points (7 minus 2 = 5.  5 squared is 25 points).If you erase 8
balls, then you get 36 points (8 minus 2 = 6.  6 squared is 36 points.</para>

<para>Get as many of the
same pieces as you can, and then erase them in one click. That way you will get
a higher score.  The game is over when there are no pieces that can be
erased.</para>

<para>The score will then be decreased according to the number of remaining
pieces. If you erase all pieces 1,000 bonus points will be added to the final
score.</para>


<sect1 id="ksame-features">
<title>More &ksame; Features</title>

<para>&ksame; is wonderful in that it will allow you to kill 5 minutes while you
wait for that program to compile.</para>

<para> Or, if nothing else, it will allow you to kill 5 minutes.</para>

</sect1>
</chapter>

<chapter id="commands">
<title>Command Reference</title>

<sect1 id="ksame-mainwindow">
<title>The Main &ksame; Window</title>

<para>There is a large area with lots of marbles.  Underneath is the status
bar. Above is the menu bar.</para>

<sect2 id="gamemenu">
<title>The <guimenu>Game</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>N</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Game</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>New</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Starts a new game. If <menuchoice><guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Random Board</guimenuitem></menuchoice> is enabled, a random game is started.
Otherwise you are presented a dialog in which you can choose a specific board.
</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycap>F5</keycap>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Game</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Restart Game</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Restarts the current board.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>H</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Game</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Show High Scores</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Displays the high score table.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Q</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Game</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Quit</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Quits &ksame;.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect2>

<sect2>
<title>The <guimenu>Move</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<shortcut>
<keycombo action="simul">&Ctrl;<keycap>Z</keycap></keycombo>
</shortcut>
<guimenu>Move</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Undo</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>This will undo the last move.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>
</variablelist>

</sect2>

<sect2>
<title>The <guimenu>Settings</guimenu> Menu</title>

<variablelist>
<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Random Board</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Enabling this will make the <menuchoice><guimenu>Game</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>New</guimenuitem></menuchoice> start with a random board instead of letting
you choose a specific board.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Show Number Remaining</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para>Displays the remaining numbers of marbles for each color in the status bar.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Show Toolbar</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Toggle</action> the toolbar on and off.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Show Statusbar</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Toggle</action> the status bar on and off.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu>
<guimenuitem>Configure Shortcuts...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem>
<para><action>Configure</action> the keyboard keys you use to access the 
different actions.</para>
</listitem>
</varlistentry>

<varlistentry>
<term><menuchoice>
<guimenu>Settings</guimenu><guimenuitem>Configure Toolbars...</guimenuitem>
</menuchoice></term>
<listitem><para><action>Open a dialog where you can configure the toolbars</action> for &ksame;.</para></listitem>
</varlistentry>

</variablelist>

</sect2>

<sect2 id="helpmenu">
<title>The <guimenu>Help</guimenu> Menu</title>

&help.menu.documentation;

</sect2>
</sect1>

</chapter>

<chapter id="credits">

<title>Credits and License</title>

<para>&ksame;</para>

<para>Program copyright 1997 Marcus Kreutzberger
<email>kreutzbe@informatik.mu-luebeck.de</email></para>
<para>Contributors:</para>
<itemizedlist>
<listitem><para>&Stephan.Kulow; &Stephan.Kulow.mail;</para>
</listitem>
</itemizedlist>

<para>Documentation copyright 2000 Nicholas R. Robbins
<email>logik9000@home.com</email></para>
<!-- TRANS:CREDIT_FOR_TRANSLATORS -->

&underFDL;               <!-- FDL: do not remove -->


&underGPL;        	 <!-- GPL License -->

</chapter>

<appendix id="installation">
<title>Installation</title>

<sect1 id="getting-ksame">
<title>How to obtain &ksame;</title>

&install.intro.documentation;

</sect1>

<sect1 id="requirements">
<title>Requirements</title>

<para>In order to successfully use &ksame;, you need &kde; 4.0. Or at least the
kdelibs package. </para>

</sect1>

<sect1 id="compilation">
<title>Compilation and Installation</title>

&install.compile.documentation;

</sect1>

</appendix>


&documentation.index;
</book>
<!--
Local Variables:
sgml-minimize-attributes: nil
sgml-general-insert-case: lower
End:
-->

